smt-partition(1) -- returns information about how the subnet may be partitioned
====

## SYNOPSIS

`smt-partition` [OMS SOURCE, <NODE ID>, <PKEY>] [OPTIONS <args>]

## DESCRIPTION

This SMT command displays information about the partitions, by using the data in the `OMS` snapshot , as provided by the OMS SOURCE.  Fabric partitions can overlap, so nodes and their ports may be in more than one partition. 

## OMS SOURCE

Most SMT commands require one or more snapshots of the data provided by the OpenSM Monitoring Service (**OMS**).  These data snapshots can be provided directly (<Online>) via a connection to the OpenSM Monitoring Service, or in a post-mortem (<Offline>) fashion by using an OMS history file.

###Online
  The OMS runs on the same host as OpenSM (the subnet manager for infiniband).  In order for the command to connect to the service it normally needs to know the port number the service is hosted on, as well as the name of the host itself.  These can be specified with;

  * `-h`, `--host`=[HOST]:
  Specifies the name of the OpenSM host where OMS runs.  HOST is either the fully qualified name of the host node, or can be *localhost*.  If not specified, *localhost* is assumed.

  * `-pn`, `--portn`=[PORT]:
  Specifies the port number for the service.  PORT should normally be the default value of *10011*, unless service has been configured otherwise, or unless some sort of port forwarding mechanism is being used.  If not specified, *10011* is assumed.

###Offline
  Most SMT commands, like this one, can use an OMS history file instead of directly connecting to the service.  The history file (commonly refered to as the *flight recorder* file) is obtained via the *smt-record(1)* command.  The file is specified with;

  * `-rH`, `--readOMSHistory`=[FILE]:
  Specifies the OMS history file to use with this command.  FILE is a normal (absolute or relative) filename.  Additionally, the special characters **%h** and **%t** can be used to specify the users' home or temp directory, respectively.

## NODE ID

Elements within the fabric can be uniquely identified with keys, descriptions, lids, and guids.  Many SMT commands can operate on a single element, and therefore need some form of identifier.  The SMT commands support some (but not all) of the common ways to identify elements.
### guid
A `guid` is a globally unique identifier, and is 64 bit number.  It can be expressed in many ways, and the SMT commands support two different ways of expressing a `guid`.

  * `big integer`:
  The guid is expressed as a base-10 integer.  A valid guid would look something like: `12345698`
  * `hexidecimal`:
  The guid is expressed in 4 groups of 16 bit hexidecimal numbers.  These groups must be seperated by a colon, so a valid guid would look something like: `0006:6a00:e900:131e`

### pkey
Numbers are often used to identify elements within the context of a 'type' of element.  They can be refered to as 'keys' or 'local ids'.  SMT supports expressing numbers as normal base-10 integers, or as hexidecimal.  Hexidecimal numbers `must` be preceeded with `0x`.
### name
Strings are used to decribe or name an element.  The SMT commands currently only supports the use of `names` to identify a `node`.

## OPTIONS
### Generic SMT Options
  * `-?`, `--Help`:
  provides an abbreviated form of help

  * `-lf`, `--logFile`=[FILE]:
  the filename for holding this commands' log messages

  * `-ll`, `--logLevel`=[LEVEL]:
  the verbosity of the logging, where LEVEL is SEVERE, WARNING, INFO, CONFIG, FINE, FINER, or ALL.

  * `-rC`, `--readConfig`=[FILE]:
  reads the specified configuration file.  The configuration file typically holds a users' default setting for things like the logLevel.  Refer to the *smt-config(1)* command.

  * `-v`, `--version`:
  prints the version of the SMT command

### Command Options
  * `-q`, `--query`=[QUERY ARGUMENT]:
  query the fabric for specific information specifed by the [QUERY ARGUMENT] argument

  * `-ql`, `--queryList`:
  list the available query arguments (same as -q list)

  * `-sr`, `--status`:
  provides a status or summary report on the nature of the partitions in subnet/fabric.

### Query Arguments
The `member` argument expects a  NODE ID which be in the form of a `guid`, `name`, or `lid`.  The `pkey` argument wants an integer, normally in hex.

  * `list`:
  list the available query options (same as -ql)

  * `member`:
  list the partitions that the node is a member of.  This query argument expects a NODE ID.

  * `parts`:
  displays all of the partitions by pkey, and also provides membership information.

  * `pkey`:
  displays attributes of the partition specified by the pkey.  Includes membership information (which can be quite large).  This query argument expects a partition key or `pkey`.

  * `status`:
  provides a status report, identical to using the `-sr` command option.

## EXAMPLES

  * `smt-partition -ql`:
  list the query options

  * `smt-partition -rH smallFab.his -q status`:
  displays a summary of the number and types of partitions in the fabric

  * `smt-partition -pn 10011 -q parts`:
  list the partitions, their pKey, and number and nature of the members

  * `smt-partition -pn 10011 -q pkey 0x7fff`:
  list all of the members in the partition specified by the pkey 0x7fff

  * `smt-partition -rH CabSnap1.his -q member cab1076 qib0`:
  list all of the partitions that node "cab1076 qib0" is a member of

  * `smt-partition -pn 10013 -dump`:
  raw data dump of all partition information from the service on port 10013

## AUTHOR

Tim Meier <meier3@llnl.gov>

## COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2018, Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
  Produced at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory.
  All rights reserved.
  LLNL-CODE-673346

## SEE ALSO

SMT(7), OMS(7), OsmJniPi(8), smt(1), smt-record(1), smt-id(1), smt-fabric(1), smt-multicast(1)

[opensm-smt](https://github.com/meier/opensm-smt) on GitHub

