smt-system(1) -- discovers and describes the **systems** in the fabric
====

## SYNOPSIS

`smt-system` [OMS SOURCE, NODE ID] [OPTIONS <args>]

## DESCRIPTION

Using the OMS SOURCE, this SMT command will determine if there are any `systems` in the fabric, and conditionally display information about them.

A fabric consists of a hierarchy of elements.  The `SMT` commands use the following terms for the various elements in the fabric.

* Fabric - the entire infiniband subnet
* System - a collection of switches that share a system guid, usually an assembly or chassis
* Node - a switch, router, or host channel adapter
* Port - an I/O connection point on a node
* Link - a negotiated relationship between two connected ports

## OMS SOURCE

Most SMT commands require one or more snapshots of the data provided by the OpenSM Monitoring Service (**OMS**).  These data snapshots can be provided directly (<Online>) via a connection to the OpenSM Monitoring Service, or in a post-mortem (<Offline>) fashion by using an OMS history file.

###Online
  The OMS runs on the same host as OpenSM (the subnet manager for infiniband).  In order for the command to connect to the service it normally needs to know the port number the service is hosted on, as well as the name of the host itself.  These can be specified with;

  * `-h`, `--host`=[HOST]:
  Specifies the name of the OpenSM host where OMS runs.  HOST is either the fully qualified name of the host node, or can be *localhost*.  If not specified, *localhost* is assumed.

  * `-pn`, `--portn`=[PORT]:
  Specifies the port number for the service.  PORT should normally be the default value of *10011*, unless service has been configured otherwise, or unless some sort of port forwarding mechanism is being used.  If not specified, *10011* is assumed.

###Offline
  Most SMT commands, like this one, can use an OMS history file instead of directly connecting to the service.  The history file (commonly refered to as the *flight recorder* file) is obtained via the *smt-record(1)* command.  The file is specified with;

  * `-rH`, `--readOMSHistory`=[FILE]:
  Specifies the OMS history file to use with this command.  FILE is a normal (absolute or relative) filename.  Additionally, the special characters **%h** and **%t** can be used to specify the users' home or temp directory, respectively.

## NODE ID

Elements within the fabric can be uniquely identified with keys, descriptions, lids, and guids.  Many SMT commands can operate on a single element, and therefore need some form of identifier.  The SMT commands support some (but not all) of the common ways to identify elements.
### guid
A `guid` is a globally unique identifier, and is 64 bit number.  It can be expressed in many ways, and the SMT commands support two different ways of expressing a `guid`.

  * `big integer`:
  The guid is expressed as a base-10 integer.  A valid guid would look something like: `12345698`
  * `hexidecimal`:
  The guid is expressed in 4 groups of 16 bit hexidecimal numbers.  These groups must be seperated by a colon, so a valid guid would look something like: `0006:6a00:e900:131e`

### lid or key
Numbers are often used to identify elements within the context of a 'type' of element.  They can be refered to as 'keys' or 'local ids'.  SMT supports expressing numbers as normal base-10 integers, or as hexidecimal.  Hexidecimal numbers `must` be preceeded with `0x`.
### name
Strings are used to decribe or name an element.  The SMT commands currently only supports the use of `names` to identy a `node`.

## OPTIONS
### Generic SMT Options
  * `-?`, `--Help`:
  provides an abbreviated form of help

  * `-lf`, `--logFile`=[FILE]:
  the filename for holding this commands' log messages

  * `-ll`, `--logLevel`=[LEVEL]:
  the verbosity of the logging, where LEVEL is SEVERE, WARNING, INFO, CONFIG, FINE, FINER, or ALL.

  * `-rC`, `--readConfig`=[FILE]:
  reads the specified configuration file.  The configuration file typically holds a users' default setting for things like the logLevel.  Refer to the *smt-config(1)* command.

  * `-v`, `--version`:
  prints the version of the SMT command

### Command Options
Most of these options expect a <sys guid> argument that represents the `system`.  Not all fabrics have `systems`.  Not all vendors support the use of <sys guid>s to describe an assembly of switches.  To determine the list of available <sys guid>s, use this command without options or arguments (other than OMS SOURCE, of course).

  * `-dump`, `--dump`=[<sys guid>]:
  a verbose list of the switches in a `system`.  If a system guid is not supplied, then all systems are dumped.

  * `-q`, `--query`=[QUERY ARGUMENT]:
  query the fabric for specific information specifed by the [QUERY ARGUMENT] argument

  * `-ql`, `--queryList`:
  list the available query arguments (same as -q list)

  * `-sr`, `--status`=[<sys guid>]:
  discovers and displays the `systems` in the fabric.  If a system guid is not supplied, then all systems are displayed.

### Query Arguments
  * `levels`:
  shows the hierarchy of the `system`, with respect to the arrangement of switches

  * `ports`:
  shows the internal and external makeup of the ports in the `system`

  * `list`:
  list the available query options (same as -ql)

  * `status`:
  provides a status report, identical to using the `-sr` command option.

  * `switches`:
  list the switches, and provides lids, guids, descriptions, and the number of ports, for the `system`.

## EXAMPLES

  * `smt-system -ql`:
  list the query options

  * `smt-system --status`:
  using localhost, port 10011, show the `systems` in the fabric

  * `smt-system -pn 10011 0006:6a00:e900:131d -q switches`:
  list all the switches in the system that has the supplied `system guid`

  * `smt-system -rH surface3.his 0006:6a00:e900:131e -q levels`:
  using the history file, show the switch levels within the `system` with the specified `system guid`

  * `smt-system -pn 10013 0006:6a00:e900:131f -q ports`:
  show the ports in the `system` for the fabric on port 10013

  * `smt-system -pn 10012 -dump`:
  display all `systems` in a verbose manner.

## AUTHOR

Tim Meier <meier3@llnl.gov>

## COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2016, Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
  Produced at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory.
  All rights reserved.
  LLNL-CODE-673346

## SEE ALSO

SMT(7), OMS(7), OsmJniPi(8), smt(1), smt-record(1), smt-fabric(1), smt-node(1), smt-port(1), smt-link(1)

[opensm-smt](https://github.com/meier/opensm-smt) on GitHub

