smt-help(1) -- a navigable help system for `OMS/SMT` 
====

## SYNOPSIS

`smt-help` [OPTIONS <args>]

## DESCRIPTION

This SMT command is a JavaHelp application.  It provides navigable and searchable help primarily for the `SMT` commands, but also contains some `OMS` background information as well as some key Infiniband and OpenSM information.

## OPTIONS
### Generic SMT Options
  * `-?`, `--Help`:
  provides an abbreviated form of help

  * `-lf`, `--logFile`=[FILE]:
  the filename for holding this commands' log messages

  * `-ll`, `--logLevel`=[LEVEL]:
  the verbosity of the logging, where LEVEL is SEVERE, WARNING, INFO, CONFIG, FINE, FINER, or ALL.

  * `-rC`, `--readConfig`=[FILE]:
  reads the specified configuration file.  The configuration file typically holds a users' default setting for things like the logLevel.  Refer to the *smt-config(1)* command.

  * `-v`, `--version`:
  prints the version of the SMT command

## EXAMPLES

The `smt-help` command doesn't require command line arguments, except for diagnostic purposes.  The normal use is to invoke it without any options.

  * `smt-help`:
  list the query options

  * `smt-help -v`:
  starting at port 10011, and for the next 3 ports, attempt to find an OMS and report

## AUTHOR

Tim Meier <meier3@llnl.gov>

## COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2016, Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
  Produced at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory.
  All rights reserved.
  LLNL-CODE-673346

## SEE ALSO

SMT(7), OMS(7), OsmJniPi(8), smt(1), smt-server(1), smt-gui(1), 

[opensm-smt](https://github.com/meier/opensm-smt) on GitHub

