smt-record(1) -- saves or `records` one or more snapshots of the `OMS` data
====

## SYNOPSIS

`smt-record` [OMS SOURCE] [-wH <filename>] [OPTIONS <args>]

## DESCRIPTION

This is one of the few SMT commands that requires a direct connection to the OpenSM Monitoring Service (`OMS`).  Its purpose is to collect and save one or more OMS snapshots to a file for later use.  This capability is often refered to as the `flight recorder`, because it is often used to capture and archive the state and activity of the fabric over long periods of time and to archive it in a `history` file for use in the future.  Most of the `SMT` commands can use a `history` file as easily as a direct connection to the OpenSM Monitoring Service.

A common practice is to start the `flight recorder` prior to a benchmark or some other fabric testing.  The `history` file is then used in a post-mortem fashion to analyze and determine the outcome or results of the tests.

Although file extensions for the output file name are not enforced, it is common to use `.his` so that the file can be recognized as a history file.  The `smt-file(1)` command is also useful for determing the nature of a history file.

## OMS SOURCE

Although most SMT commands can accept `OMS` snapshots from a file (<Offline>) or via a direct connection (<Online>) to the OpenSM Monitoring service, this command operates exclusively in the <Online> mode.

###Online
  The OMS runs on the same host as OpenSM (the subnet manager for infiniband).  In order for the command to connect to the service it normally needs to know the port number the service is hosted on, as well as the name of the host itself.  These can be specified with;

  * `-h`, `--host`=[HOST]:
  Specifies the name of the OpenSM host where OMS runs.  HOST is either the fully qualified name of the host node, or can be *localhost*.  If not specified, *localhost* is assumed.

  * `-pn`, `--portn`=[PORT]:
  Specifies the port number for the service.  PORT should normally be the default value of *10011*, unless service has been configured otherwise, or unless some sort of port forwarding mechanism is being used.  If not specified, *10011* is assumed.

## OPTIONS
### Generic SMT Options
  * `-?`, `--Help`:
  provides an abbreviated form of help

  * `-lf`, `--logFile`=[FILE]:
  the filename for holding this commands' log messages

  * `-ll`, `--logLevel`=[LEVEL]:
  the verbosity of the logging, where LEVEL is SEVERE, WARNING, INFO, CONFIG, FINE, FINER, or ALL.

  * `-rC`, `--readConfig`=[FILE]:
  reads the specified configuration file.  The configuration file typically holds a users' default setting for things like the logLevel.  Refer to the *smt-config(1)* command.

  * `-v`, `--version`:
  prints the version of the SMT command

### Command Options
  One (and only one) of the three forms of duration (-nh, -nm, -nr) must be specified.  The duration of the recording can be controlled in hours or minutes.  The number of snapshots collected becomes a function of how often the recorder grabs a snaphot.  Since this period is often tied to the sweep rate of the Performance Manager (default is 180secs), the number of records per hour can vary.

  Alternately, a fixed number of records can be specified.  Recording will stop after the specified snapshots have been acquired and saved.  Again, the duration of the command will depend on the time between snapshots.

  An output filename should be specified with the `-wH`=[FILE] option.  FILE is a normal (absolute or relative) filename.  Additionally, the special characters %h and %t can be used to specify the users' home or temp directory, respectively.

  * `-nh`, `--numHours`=[number of hours]:
  collect OMS snapshots for the specified number of hours

  * `-nm`, `--numMinutes`=[number of minutes]:
  collect OMS snapshots for the specified number of minutes

  * `-nr`, `--numRecords`=[number of records]:
  collect the specified number of snapshots, or records.

  * `-wH`, `--writeOMSHistory`=[FILE]:
  FILE is the filename of the output history file.  This will contain the collection of OMS snaphots.

## EXAMPLES

  * `smt-record -pn 10011 -wH %h/cluster/history/shortTest.his -nm 30`:
  collects 30 minutes of snapshots from the service on port 10011, and saves it to the file

  * `smt-record -nh 4 -wH %t/longTest.his -pn 10014`:
  collects 4 hours of snapshots from the service on port 10014, and saves it to the file

  * `smt-record -wH normalTest.his -pn 10020 -nr 300`:
  collects 300 snapshots from the service on port 10020, and saves it to the file in the current directory

## AUTHOR

Tim Meier <meier3@llnl.gov>

## COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2016, Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
  Produced at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory.
  All rights reserved.
  LLNL-CODE-673346

## SEE ALSO

SMT(7), OMS(7), OsmJniPi(8), smt(1), smt-fabric(1), smt-file(1)

[opensm-smt](https://github.com/meier/opensm-smt) on GitHub

