smt-event(1) -- shows OpenSM events and traps 
====

## SYNOPSIS

`smt-event` [OMS SOURCE] [OPTIONS <args>]

## DESCRIPTION

OpenSM receives a variety of asynchronous events, both locally and from remote devices.  This SMT command displays the counter values associated with the various event types.  It isn't capable of identifying the source of each event, just that it has occurred within a specific time frame.  The data is provided by the OMS SOURCE.

## OMS SOURCE

Most SMT commands require one or more snapshots of the data provided by the OpenSM Monitoring Service (**OMS**).  These data snapshots can be provided directly (<Online>) via a connection to the OpenSM Monitoring Service, or in a post-mortem (<Offline>) fashion by using an OMS history file.

###Online
  The OMS runs on the same host as OpenSM (the subnet manager for infiniband).  In order for the command to connect to the service it normally needs to know the port number the service is hosted on, as well as the name of the host itself.  These can be specified with;

  * `-h`, `--host`=[HOST]:
  Specifies the name of the OpenSM host where OMS runs.  HOST is either the fully qualified name of the host node, or can be *localhost*.  If not specified, *localhost* is assumed.

  * `-pn`, `--portn`=[PORT]:
  Specifies the port number for the service.  PORT should normally be the default value of *10011*, unless service has been configured otherwise, or unless some sort of port forwarding mechanism is being used.  If not specified, *10011* is assumed.

###Offline
  Most SMT commands, like this one, can use an OMS history file instead of directly connecting to the service.  The history file (commonly refered to as the *flight recorder* file) is obtained via the *smt-record(1)* command.  The file is specified with;

  * `-rH`, `--readOMSHistory`=[FILE]:
  Specifies the OMS history file to use with this command.  FILE is a normal (absolute or relative) filename.  Additionally, the special characters **%h** and **%t** can be used to specify the users' home or temp directory, respectively.

## OPTIONS
### Generic SMT Options
  * `-?`, `--Help`:
  provides an abbreviated form of help

  * `-lf`, `--logFile`=[FILE]:
  the filename for holding this commands' log messages

  * `-ll`, `--logLevel`=[LEVEL]:
  the verbosity of the logging, where LEVEL is SEVERE, WARNING, INFO, CONFIG, FINE, FINER, or ALL.

  * `-rC`, `--readConfig`=[FILE]:
  reads the specified configuration file.  The configuration file typically holds a users' default setting for things like the logLevel.  Refer to the *smt-config(1)* command.

  * `-v`, `--version`:
  prints the version of the SMT command

### Command Options
  * `-dump`, `--dump`=[EVENT TYPE]:
  raw (primitive format) display of the event counters.  If an `EVENT TYPE` is given (see `-q events`) then the dump is limited to that single event type.

  * `-q`, `--query`=[QUERY ARGUMENT]:
  query the specific argument (see below).

  * `-ql`, `--queryList`:
  list the available query arguments (same as -q list)

  * `-sr`, `--status`:
  displays an event summary, which includes the current (timestamped) absolute counter value, as well as the dynamic count.  The dynamic count is the amount changed during the most recent sample interval, also known as the delta count.  See also `-q status`.

### Query Arguments
  * `events`:
  lists the various types of events that are monitored.  These names and values can be used with the `-dump` option.

  * `list`:
  list the available query options (same as -ql)

  * `status`:
  provides a status report, identical to using the `-sr` command option.

## EXAMPLES

  * `smt-event -q events`:
  lists the names and numbers of each event type

  * `smt-event -pn 10013`:
  returns the absolute values in the event counters from the service on port 10013

  * `smt-event -rH bigFabric.his -dump 3`:
  dumps the absolute values (with timestamp) of event counter #3 (trap) for each snapshot in the history file.

  * `smt-event`:
  returns the absolute values in the event counters from the service on port 10011

  * `smt-event -pn 10011 -q status`:
  returns an event summary, complete with dynamic changes during the past update interval

  * `smt-event -sr`:
  same as above, returns the event summary for the service on port 10011

## AUTHOR

Tim Meier <meier3@llnl.gov>

## COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2016, Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
  Produced at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory.
  All rights reserved.
  LLNL-CODE-673346

## SEE ALSO

SMT(7), OMS(7), OsmJniPi(8), smt(1), smt-record(1), smt-server(1), smt-fabric(1), smt-gui(1), smt-console(1), smt-help(1)

[opensm-smt](https://github.com/meier/opensm-smt) on GitHub

